day two of an ambitious program that may
save children in Gaza from polio which
can cause paralysis and even death Gaza
once had a 99% vaccination rate but
since Israel's war on Gaza that's
dropped and last month this child was
confirmed as the first case in 25 years
so the UN has stepped in as you can see
behind me there are already hundreds of
people here hundreds of families and
children ready to get their vaccination
and unra is here with the World Health
Organization and
UNICEF parents have been bringing their
infants to be vaccinated at medical
facilities the World Health Organization
says a drop in routine vaccinations in
the occupied territories including Gaza
contributed to the reemergence of polio
in the
strip Palestinians say the main reason
for the return of polio is the collapse
of gaza's health system and destruction
of most of its
hospitals and that collapse apps along
with Israel's destruction of water and
sewage facilities have meant there are
many other life-threatening problems as
well I had both my daughters vaccinated
against polio however there's been an
outbreak of many other communicable
diseases sewage water has flooded roads
there's a shortage of detergents and
medicines are unavailable how can we
protect our children hundreds of
thousands of people are living without
access to Basics like clean water
adequate food and even even soap leading
to outbreaks of diarrhea scabies lice
and other
illnesses diseases have spread like
wildfire from hepatitis to blood
infections my son contracted sepsis
we're living in tents in unhealthy
conditions Palestinians and Aid agencies
say what is really needed to ensure the
health and safety of children is an end
to Israel's bombardment
vaccination has provided a solution to
another problem caused by the Israeli
occupation instead of remedying the root
cause which is
war and some say even the vaccination
program itself may prove difficult since
most children will require two doses
with a 4- we Gap in
between these children are having their
fingers marked to show they have had
their first shot but it's not clear yet
if they'll get their second although
there have been agreed upon pauses in
the attack
there's an urgency to complete the
campaign in time IM Kimber Al
jazer make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer